	
	BHUPENDRA PRATAP SINGH
	Former General Secretary, Student Affairs Council, SMVDU
	& Social worker at Swadeshi Jagran Manch

	Bhupendra Pratap Singh
	Product Development | Deep Tech | Speaker | Cloud Native Architecture 

	Contact:- 9086244169

	Email Id:- bhupendra.smvdu@gmail.com
	
	https://www.linkedin.com/company/centre-for-development-of-advanced-computing/
	
	https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJvMXTVWR_fXH4oLOEb-oQA
	
	MQTT at A Glance : Basic to Advanced | OASIS 3.1.1 Features | IoT Protocols
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fRbZCI6A94U
		
	https://enrichiot.in/
	
	https://bhupendrasmvdu.webs.com/
	
	


	 HashStudioz Technologies Private Limited

	Digital Transformation Consultancy & Software Development Company
	TRAVEL | IoT | BLOCKCHAIN | CLOUD | MOBILITY SOLUTION
	Information Technology & Services
	Noida, Uttar Pradesh 
	https://www.hashstudioz.com/
	https://www.linkedin.com/company/hashstudioz/
	https://www.glassdoor.co.in/Overview/Working-at-HashStudioz-EI_IE2954057.11,22.htm

	
Converting Product Management Vision into tangible, state of the art software to make the customers experience a delight.

Experience in creating product roadmaps from conception to launch, driving the product vision, defining go-to-market strategy, and leading design discussions.

Manage IoT technology projects and product developments throughout their lifecycle for the digitization of the current and future digital offerings.

Skilled polyglot programmer specializing in Internet of Things.

Experienced with Distributed Ledger technology (fee less transactions), Wireless Sensor Networks, Edge Computing Frameworks, Cloud Native Applications, Embedded Linux, TICK Stack and communicating technical results to audiences with various backgrounds.

Thorough understanding of Socket Programming, C, Python, Node.JS, SQL, Time Series databases, Prometheus, Docker, Kubernetes, Grafana and other computing frameworks and languages.

Published more than 10 research papers in reputed journals and conferences.

Loves Working and contributing with open source tools and technologies.



Senior IoT Engineer
HashStudioz Technologies Private Limited Full-time
Dates Employed Apr 2021 – Present
Employment Duration 3 mos
Location Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India
Tech Lead


Bliss Health, Inc.
Company Name Bliss Health, Inc.
Total Duration 9 mos

    Title IoT Product Manager
    Full-time
    Dates Employed Nov 2020 – Apr 2021
    Employment Duration 6 mos
    Location Durham, North Carolina, United States
    Lead the project from Ideation to product phase to create seamless connections between devices and the Electronic Health Records, to bring concise patient monitoring directly to the care providers.
    Title IoT, R&D Lead
    Full-time
    Dates Employed Aug 2020 – Nov 2020
    Employment Duration 4 mos
    Location Durham, North Carolina, United States
    Bliss Health is a USA based technology company focused on connecting the healthcare ecosystem and enabling hybrid and virtual care models through their Bliss CONNECT platform.

    Roles and Responsibilities:
    · Project Lead for IoT solution development across the layers.
    · Designing architecture, Writing firmware for Healthcare IoT Devices, Platform development.
    · Design and implement innovative and practical solutions to feature requests
    · Participate in the definition of coding standards & methods used on the team, and ensure coding standards are followed;
    · Collaborate with system/feature stakeholders to discuss, collect, interpret and analyse technical constraints and establish technical solutions.
	
	

IoT, Research And Development Engineer
CDAC Full-time
Dates Employed Sep 2017 – Aug 2020
Employment Duration 3 yrs
Location Pune Area, India
Research, Development in Internet of Things across the layers.
Technical support and guidance to IAF exam software.
Developing technical contents and modules for PG-DIoT course.
Communicating technical results to PG-DIoT and PG-DESD students (NSQF-Level-VIII).


Centre for Development of Advanced Computing
Postgraduate Student
Dates Employed Feb 2017 – Aug 2017
Employment Duration 7 mos
Location Pune Area, India
PG Diploma in Internet of Things


B&R Industrial Automation
Internship
Dates Employed Jul 2017
Employment Duration 1 mo
Location Pune Area, India
A well-established IOT Architecture ranging from End-Device to Cloud Platform has been implemented. At Layer-1 Ultrasonic Sensor is used to measure the water level of a field/tank. At layer-2 OPC-UA Client and Server architecture is implemented to send and receive data from the sensors. At layer-3 scalable and flexible Cloud Platform Thingsboard is used where data aggregation and visualization is done, apart from the data visualization controlling of actuator 5V DC motor is done which will turn on and off according to the threshold of water Level. As an Administrator part, HMI is implemented on the Cloud Platform where Actuators can be controlled at any moment. The notification system has also been implemented. Whenever any unexpected event happens or any intelligent decision taken from the cloud side, Administrator will get email and SMS on his/her registered Email and Mobile Phone.
	